####The data used to generate the heatmap and histograms in Figure 5 is found in the Supplemental Data Set 3 file (Link: http://www.plantcell.org/highwire/filestream/68088/field_highwire_adjunct_files/2/TPC2017-LSB-00099R2_Supplemental_Data_Set_3.xls). The heatmap is created using the data provided at the *Expression Profiles TF* spreadsheet, while the histogram as created using the data provided at the *Important Gene Families* spreadsheet.### Step 1: Create separate files for each graphSeparate files that contained the data for each graph in Figure 5 were created. They are named *Graph 5A.xlsx*, *Graph 5B.xlsx* and *Graph 5C.xlsx*    ### Step 2: Creating the heatmap of Figure 5A#### Step 2.1: Sorting the genes according to their TF classesThe genes on *Expression Profile TF* spreadsheet were not sorted, therefore we used the sort function on excel to sort them according to their TF Class. #### Step 2.2:  Selecting the mid-point cell to carry the TF class label Each gene on this spreadsheet is classified according to its TF class. However, if we generate a heatmap using all the data, the TF Class labels will overlap each other and will not be legible. Because of that, we keep the only the TF Class label of the gene that was located in the middle of a TF Class, and excluded all other labels.#### Step 2.3: Generating the heatmap on JMPA heatmap was generated on JMP using *Graph 5A.xlsx* as the input file. The file *Fig 5A - With embed scripts.jrp*, contains the script and data used to generate the heatmap of Figure 5A, which was saved with the following name: *Figure 5A.jpeg*.   ### Step 3: Generating histograms of Figures 5B and 5CWe first generated histograms of Figures 5B and 5C on JMP, however, we were not able to make JMP treat the data on the X-axis as numeric data. Because of that the order of the histograms we created and those that are in the original paper did not match. We then decided to do these histograms on the excel. Besides of saving them on excel, we also saved them as .jpeg (*Figure 5B and Figure 5C*)